---
layout: post
title: "Weeknotes: S02 E07 - There And Back Again"
date: 2023-02-11
tags: weeknotes
---

This week was dominated by a customer visit to Far Far Away. When you live in rural Dorset, most places are far far away — even the nearest shop (or phone signal). But this was 4 1/2 hours by train each way.

Actually the journey There And Back Again was really easy — train connections all worked, unreserved seats were found, and working on the train made the time fly. I’d hate to see the data cost for my work phone though. Perhaps the remarkable thing was that it was unremarkable — trains that run on time where you can get a seat. As my wife pointed out, expectations are set very low so are easily met; a late train in Germany or The Netherlands would be pretty rare.

The visit itself was an overwhelmingly positive experience that I gained massively from (and hopefully the customer did too) which has set me wondering if this kind of thing happens in the public sector, or if this a quirk of working in the private sector. It reminded me a bit of my Best Value days where I would be parachuted in to work with a service team and find ways to improve, but that felt more enforced and either [part of a statutory duty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Best_Value) or a way to save money.

This was more a case of ‘hey, I’ve been there before — why don’t I talk you through some ideas that could help?’ I’ve managed four CMS migrations (two automated, two manual) and while I never want to actually do one again myself, having been in those shoes it does help make the practical side of planning a lot easier. And I think we emerged triumphant in the end with a plan that stacked up, met the deadline and covered all the bases. Yay team!

It was also lovely to meet people in person, but I may have to hold back on my opening line of ‘hey, you’ve got legs — me too!’ as I’m overusing it. Forming and building relationships is really hard done remotely, although that’s been life for the last three years. Give me face-to-face any day. Nuance, body language, conversation that is personal not transactional. That’s the good stuff, right there.

Having said all this, I found walking through a busy Paddington station an overwhelming experience after being away from large crowds for so long. People are like chocolate biscuits; a few can be a delight, but a packet in one go isn’t good for you. (I feel I may have overshared there….)

Did I mention the guy at Dorchester West Station that had a phone notification of Donald Trump saying “I’m Donald Trump and I endorse this message”? What was he aiming for with that?

## Magnificent public buildings

This may sound a bit weird but seeing investment in great public buildings brings me joy. Why should the public sector be reduced to providing poor working conditions for its staff in drab buildings?

I was blown away by the offices I visited this week, walking around in wonder like an Amish boy coming to The Big City for the first time. Gazing upwards at the beauty of the atrium, admiring the lovely meeting spaces, cafe and restaurant, and Steve the weird dummy fireman (don’t ask).

## Let me sleep, and dream of sheep

My ongoing battle with insomnia continues, unabated (without rest, you might say). Little light, shining…

This month’s desperate attempt to solve what might be a [completely natural phenomenon](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5689397/) associated with age is to instigate a Dry February regime. Listen, I know you’re meant to do it in January, but that has 3 extra days, doesn’t it?

Amber realises how clever reducing a commitment to improving your health is

I have found myself talking about it more to colleagues lately, perhaps because of its increasing incidence, but maybe because it can be accompanied by bouts of grumpiness. I catch myself in meetings moaning about things and wonder who that person is I can hear talking — doesn’t he know how boring he is? Ah, that would be me…

I suspect there are no easy wins or quick fixes, and I may just have to cave in, accept the ravages of circadian rhythms and work around them. I mean, writing Weeknotes at 4am is OK, isn’t it?

Still, I’ve finally found an alcohol-free beer I can actually drink without screwing up my face in disgust. So I’ve got that going for me.

## Quick thoughts

*   why hasn’t content design made its way to the rail service yet? I mean, who actually _alights_ from a train, or says a train _is formed of_ x coaches?
*   noise-cancelling earbuds are the greatest invention in travel
*   I have 200 chapsticks but never have one on me when I need one.
*   I do think it was a bit mean of my hosts to [offload Noah’s Ark](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-suffolk-57673413) before I got there. Still, the lovely company and being treated to a meal out was beyond generous
*   sad to see Burt Bacharach pass away. What the world needs now really is Love, Sweet Love

## Spot of the week

Back by popular demand (well, [one person at least](https://twitter.com/colinstenning/status/1621816349684015105)), this week’s photo demonstrates the ‘full otter’ position, favoured in drawing attention to the afflicted with cries of “oh look, he’s fallen”. Not necessarily undertaken in any one spot, but the patio is favoured.

Extra points to be won for working out which way up this creature actually is
