---
layout: france
title: Update - January 2026 pt 2
date: 2026-01-31
description: It feels like a lot is happening all at once

---
Hadn't planned to put together another post until the end of February, but some significant changes have happened since the last post.

## Timetable change
We've decided to bring forward our plans for retiring to June rather than September. A few reasons for this:
* I've been struggling with stress at work and frankly am having trouble envisaging another 36 weeks. In fact, as I'm writing this I'm off work having been signed off by my GP
* Financially, the change doesn't really add up to much of a difference
* There's a lot to be said for a moving starting in September to catch the end of the summer rather than starting with winter.
* Selling the house should be easier to achieve in the summer than waiting for the following spring.
* An earlier finish also takes the pressure off my restrictive leave allowance, and allows us to drop our planned May holiday.

I'm also not ruling out an April finish should things continue to go sour with work, but a move to four days a week could help take the sting out and let me get a better work/life balance.

## Strasbourg in March
Everything is now booked for Strasbourg, which will be a public transport-only affair to test out the merits of Strasbourg's network (but also to get us across country a bit quicker than driving can achieve).

The plan is to spend as much of the seven days we have exploring the likely Quartiers for living in, and also some of the outliers. We've been using [Bien dans ma Ville](https://www.bien-dans-ma-ville.fr/strasbourg-67482/) for checking out where to live using hard data on each area, but I'm still struck by how quickly you can get a feel for somewhere just by being there and walking around. This was certainly the case for Portugal.

While we're there we're planning to meet up with Alison, who we met while in Cheltenham near Christmas as she was helping sell Crémant d'Alsace (obviously we had to buy a couple of bottles). She and Rachel had a webchat a couple of weeks ago and we both think she'll be a very useful ally to have on the ground near where we want to be, as she lives in Freiberg.

The ever-present issue of what happens with the cat while we're away raised its head when it looked like our local arrangement may not pan out. This got us looking at a House Sitter as an option, if not for this trip (short notice) then maybe our longer planned trip after retirement. Realising we needed some nice photos of the house - and that we didn't have any - sent us into a flurry of tidying and photographing.

## Making the money work
Thanks to Instagram's algorithm, Rachel spotted a financial adviser that she thought we should check out, so recently we had a chat with Forth Capital.

Although we'd been interested in the Assurance Vie proposed by Harrison Brook, I was a bit disappointed with the 'get in touch when you're living in France' approach they offered. As a comparison, we had a very productive chat with Naimh at Forth Capital who offered to do more of a pre-planning and post-move approach.

One thing she challenged was my focus on getting annuities with our two SIPPs, as she says most people don't use these any more given poor returns and issues with inheritance. She pretty much sold me on the idea of looking for a good drawdown arrangement for our pre-state pension years. Reading more about this outside of the chat I realised this could give us greater flexibility and possibly improve the returns we can get on the invested money.

As a result we've commissioned them to do some initial work for us on coming up with a holistic financial plan to help guide us better.

## Getting practical
Other recent changes:
* Rachel has starting the inventory of what we'll take with us when we move (for customs), also highlighting what we'd look to sell before we go or what we sell off with the House
* The Trello planner has been completely revamped for bringing things forward. It was nice to see things being ticked off the list as done
* Rachel found a new (free) online French course that caters specifically for people new to living in france, with lessons aimed at practical things you'll need to do: [France Université Numérique](https://www.fun-mooc.fr/fr/cours/vivre-en-france-a1/)
